# Title: Category Theory (From Sets to Categories)

# Material -> Structural
* from set theory as "sets, elements and functions", to thinking of elements as functions from * to a set, so we now only have "sets and functions".
* in programming languages and type theory, types are not collections of elements, but a symbol with constructors (functions into the type). In Nat example, say that Nat is 
freely generated by these constructors.
* in algebra, we think of matrices as linear maps (functions) between fixed dimensional spaces. 

# Monoids -> Categories
* For linear maps, If input and output dimensions are the same, then we have the monoid of square matrices. But if input/output dims are different, they don't form a monoid because multiplication can fail. 
* Instead, they form a category, with natural numbers as objects, and the matrices as morphisms. you can only "multiply" or compose them if the dimensions match up
* What is a category? Talk about $C^{op}$ the opposite category.
* Category theory is not just about "sets and functions", but any abstract structure has some notion of "objects and morphisms". Give an example of a small category, generated from a graph.

# Representations and Semantics
* Given a small category $C$, we often ask if it can be "represented" by some sets and functions. In fact, we have many "functors" from C^{op} to the category of Sets that preserves the structure of C^{op} (and therefore of $C$). Pick some object a in C, and map all objects $b$ in $C$ to the set of morphisms $C[b,a]$ from b to a. Describe map on morphisms. A functor C^{op} -> Set is also called a presheaf. 
* what is a functor?
* Similar to Cayley's theorem in group theory, that any finite group can be represented by a matrix group. What is Yoneda embedding?


# Thank you
